---
layout: post
title:      "First Steps"
date:       2018-11-03 17:42:02 +0000
permalink:  first_steps
---


The first time i thought about coding was from one of my personal training clients who was thinking of a career change and told me they were doing the FlatIron School intro to web development free courses . At that point i was using several sources of income just to be able to pay my rent and my other bills. I had a full time job and i was running my own personal training business which also took about 30 hours a week, along with my 40 hour a week job i was finding myself spread too thin! And almost everyone i knew was either doing the same trying to make ends meet and mostly unhappy with their jobs or careers. Myself i was working as a gardener for a housing development company and it was alot of manual labor that was really hurting my body. In a few short years i had developed some foot and back pain and the worst part of the job was that there were no raises, no benefits, no room for growth and at the end of it i was let go for the season because there was no work, so the job had no job security. On top of that the job was extremely monotonous, had no personal growth for me and was going nowhere. This lead me to not want to have a job like that ever again, and for a while i just focused on my personal training business.  I thought that this great for me as i was my own boss and could make my own hours but quickly i felt unchallenged and like i was not growing as a person, and like i was just working for money. Then i remebered my client and i tried the Intro to Web Development courses. The freedom i have from running my own business allowed me to find time to do the courses so that was one perk of being my own boss, and i liked the time i spent doing those introductory courses. Before i decided to commit to coding i thought that i was going to have to struggle and work multiple jobs for most of my life until an opportunity would arise for me or until i had saved enough money, and that has proven the case even as i try to complete the Flatiron School Web Development program. But now i have a different plan for my life where i want to enjoy what i work in and be able to conitinually grow as a person including with my work and to create opportunities for myself rather than wait for something to fall in my lap. I have truly enjoyed the time i have spent coding with FlatIron and i hope that at least i can turn something that I enjoy to do into something that can also give me a good living, and I really think that coding is something that can offer that to people like me. People who love to work hard and  who are intelligent and dont want to be taken advantage of through work or life situations should definately consider coding as a way to empower themselves and create a better future for themselves. 
Everytime i learn something new with coding, and i love the challenges, and i feel how I am changing for the positive and growing into the person I want to be, I can't wait to see where this path takes me in my life, it's very exciting!
