---
layout: post
title:      "Scraping The Web"
date:       2018-12-10 03:11:53 +0000
permalink:  scraping_the_web
---


Scraping has been on of the most interesting tools I have used in programming. It uses specific expressions that utilize css and html tags to grab information from websites and to be able to ultilize that information in the programs that you write. One thing about scraping that can be extremely frustrating is locating the exactly right tag. When you open the console you can inspect the html code for the tags that you want to use to scrape, and many times you can find what you are looking for. Especially because the inspect function can sometimes allow you to hover over an image or element of a page and it directly shows you which tag corresponds with that element on the screen. However even if you have located the tag that you are looking for the layout of the rest of the code is also important when you are trying to scrape information. There may be many elements in the html that have the same name as the element that you just located and they might be organized in different ways, and when you are trying to use the information that you scrape and you try to utilize it in your program such as if you want to iterate of the elements or anything like that it is important to know how much information you are scraping from the website. For example when i was working on my CLI Gem project i was scraping a table from a wikipedia page, but the page had three or four tables that had the same tag that i was looking up. So initially i was scraping information from several tables, where i only wanted to scrape information from one table. So i had to narrow the search that i was to scrape and fortunately the way that the elements that are scraped can have certains methods called on them like objects in an array it allows use to really narrow into the elements. So really when scraping a website it is very rewarding to find a tag to the element that you are looking for, but when working with that scraped information its important to see how that tag name relates to the rest of the html code and where it potentially might also be utilized because you might end up scraping alot more data than you intially intended.
