---
layout: post
title:      "First Project"
date:       2018-11-21 17:37:06 +0000
permalink:  first_project
---


Starting the CLI project was deifinately a daunting task. Up until this point the lessons were really hard but still doable, mostly learing key concepts like what a class variable is and how to implement logic statements and stuff like that. And there were definatley labs leading up to it like the MusicLibraryCLI and the TicTacToe with AI that were difficult and i learned so much from these lab. But this was the first project and I had no idea where to start, usually the labs have test or some other sort of lesson plan or something to follow, but with the CLI project the whole thing is of your design, there are no test and you have to use your creativity. Before i actually got it started i didn"t realize that I knew enough code to actually make something.  I had never even made a gem either. Through much trial and error i finally have written some of the classs in my CLI project and realized that i had actually learned some coding skills  that i  could reliably recall on and implement to get a running program. It just feels amazing to be able to creates something, have it break because of something of your doing, and then correctly fix it to get your code running again with the skills learned. I never expected to be so proud of just having freedom and independence to implement the techniques I've learned through the curriculum and use it for my own design. It really took reading over and over those lessons on object relations and scraping and doing the labs over and over to kind of drill the techniques into my head. Working on the project itself also got repetitive but it takes that repititon to drill in the flow and the way of thinking to use the right techniques.Thankfully the videos and walkthroughs were really helpful in geting started and bundling this gem, and ive learned so much from this project up to this point. i really love how you can watch the videos and do the labs but it really comes together when your putting it into your own project, and this project really helps you with alot of other skills like presenting your work and refactoring the work and i just really like how multifaceted it really is it really gives a nice wholistic view of what you do when you create something with code, from the drawing board to the presentation and even the video that goes along with it. I can't wait for the new projects!
